---
comments: true
date: 2016-08-08
layout: post
title: Intro Workshop 2k16
categories:
  - Latest From The Campus
---

Once again the society considered as the heart and soul for all the
numerous worth praising Robotix related initiatives of KGP came up with
its encouraging and enthusiastic introductory seminar to spread the ever
increasing Robotics temperament among the very excited UG freshers who
turned out as ever, in great numbers, occupying every single corner of
Kalidas Auditorium to behold the preview for the exciting year TRS
already planned to go through. 

![](/img/blog/2016/intro-workshop/1.jpg){:.img-responsive}

The workshop began with a glimpse of the work the society did for
creating the tech-savvy Robotix environment among all the Kgpians. The
freshers were informed about the in-house events, the classes, workshops,
learning opportunities and were given a peek into the extravaganza that
Robotix 2016 will turn out to be. Glimpses of the previous edition
fascinated the attendees and gave them an overview of the impact and
outreach of Team Robotix. 

![](/img/blog/2016/intro-workshop/2.jpg){:.img-responsive}

The videos of the society operations and the previous fest left the
freshers awestruck. There also were robot demonstrations on stage, along
with quadcopter flying sessions, that were the heart and the soul of the
event. Three robots were demonstrated in totality, one being the light
follower robot that could follow a beam of light thrown to its front,
another being the gesture controlled robot that could be moved using
hand movements and the final one being a robot that could follow a preset
color of objects using a camera feed. The demonstrations left the
audience in wonder and gave them a look and feel regarding the technical
operations of the society. 

![](/img/blog/2016/intro-workshop/3.jpg){:.img-responsive}

The events for Robotix 2016 were first disclosed to the public forum on
the same stage, and a brief overview of the same was also given. To keep
the audience in action, several brain teasers, goodie questions and
interactive chats took place which made the event even more enjoyable for
the already amazed freshers. At the same time the fruitful opportunity
was given to all the new robotics enthusiasts to curb down their
technical doubts. 

![](/img/blog/2016/intro-workshop/4.jpg){:.img-responsive}

There was universal acclaim for the amount of work put in for making the
seminar a success. The final result was a real inspiration for freshers
and a motivation for Team Robotix to continue in its endeavors of
spreading robotics culture around and making IITKGP the hub of robotics
education.

![](/img/blog/2016/intro-workshop/5.jpg){:.img-responsive}
