---
comments: true
date: 2017-01-31
layout: post
slug: robotix-2k17
title: 'Robotix 2017'
categories:
  - 'Robotix'
---

```
Making a bot is really simple. You just have to understand the problem
statement, think of a design and then make it alive. And for the
debugging part, that’s easy too, except for a few million complications.
```

When a critical soul questioned me about my motivation to follow
robotics, I was speechless. Not that I didn’t have anything to say,
but because I had so much to. 

_Where do I begin I thought to myself. The rush to learn something new or
the goodness that fills when that motor gushes for the first time. Not
to mention the emotions that get welled up when your Bluetooth gives you
a green signal. And what about the feeling when you want to give up but
you don’t and when finally you make it work, every sleepless moment
spent on making that relay click starts feeling blissful._ 

-Robotix 2017 participant

Asia’s largest techno-management fest became an honorable host to such
emotions. Kshitij 2017 witnessed some of the largest participation
previously seen. The manual event – Bomb disposal, as expected saw the
maximum participation among the three events. Also, the autonomous event
- B.R.I.C.K.S. was a success in every term. Lastly, the IP event -
Conquest, made the contestants storm their brains out, making their bot
run the sweetest of all. 

The participants, irrespective of who won or who didn’t, definitely had
one common opinion- they had loads of fun. The debugging and calibration
session for the bots was admittedly the most sweet and sour experience
that the participants had all along. 

**Bomb Disposal - A manual event**

![Bomb Disposal](/img/blog/2017/fest/1.jpg){:.img-responsive}

This event could be explained in a few words - Innovation at its best.
Though the participants had a tough mechanism to tackle, it was done in
some marvelous ways. The mechanism was to design a bot that was capable
of cutting wires and lifting blocks. There were two arenas which were
occupied the whole time. The event witnessed many moving as well as
cutting mechanisms which used high speed cutters, solder irons, wire
clippers and in some cases the most creative use of scissors ever
witnessed. To sum up, Bomb disposal was a blast. 

**Bricks – A semi autonomous event**

![BRICKS](/img/blog/2017/fest/2.jpg){:.img-responsive}

How can a task as trivial as picking and placing things be made
fun-filled? Just tell them to do it autonomously. Tell them to have a
wireless control and a few sensors fitted here and there. A few
mechanical complications and voila! There you have it. 

The participants had to make an autonomous bot capable of distinguishing
between solid and hollow blocks. It was to be traversed using wireless
bluetooth module. 

Bricks became a first-hand spectator of the youth’s enthusiasm towards
autonomous robotics. Students showcased their talents combined with their
perseverance on a wooden arena. 

People came to know about how hard it is to make and then to debug a bot.
But the energy of the arena screamed how much fun it was to be a part of
it. 

**CONQUEST- The IP event**

![CONQUEST](/img/blog/2017/fest/3.jpg){:.img-responsive}

The image processing event made us realize how far we have come in
robotics from where we started. We are almost at the verge of completing
the bridge between the virtual and the real world. Think about this,
taking a video feed from an overhead camera and telling the bot its left
and right after processing the surrounding using that feed. It’s just
amazing. 

The event saw the participation of around 20 teams and enthusiastically
so. The bot run wasn’t as simple, but when the bots finally ran, the look
on the participant’s face was worth cherishing. True happiness. 

The overall story of Robotix 2017 sums up in a few words. Raw that became
bots, bots that became emotions, emotions that became people and people
who became Robotix 2017!
